```
           __   __             __   ___
|     /\  / _` |__)  /\  |\ | / _` |__
|___ /~~\ \__> |  \ /~~\ | \| \__> |___

```
# Help

## What is Lagrange

Lagrange is a GUI client for browsing Geminispace. It offers modern conveniences familiar from web browsers, such as smooth scrolling, inline image viewing, multiple tabs, visual themes, Unicode fonts, bookmarks, history, and page outlines.

Like Gemini, Lagrange has been designed with minimalism in mind. It depends on a small number of essential libraries. It is written in C and uses SDL for hardware-accelerated graphics. OpenSSL is used for secure communications.

=> https://www.libsdl.org   SDL: Simple DirectMedia Layer
=> https://www.openssl.org  OpenSSL: Cryptography and SSL/TLS Toolkit

### Features

* Beautiful typography using Unicode fonts
* Autogenerated page style and Unicode icon for each Gemini domain
* Smart suggestions when typing the URL — search bookmarks, history, identities
* Sidebar for page outline, managing bookmarks and identities, and viewing history
* Multiple tabs
* Identity management — create and use TLS client certificates
* Light and dark UI themes
* Select and copy text with the mouse
* Find text on the page
* Open image links inline on the same page
* Open links via keyboard shortcuts
* Instant back/forward navigation
* Smooth scrolling
* Scaling page content (50%...200%)
* Scaling factor for the UI (for arbitrary monitor DPI)
* Persistent app state — tabs and history are restored on next run

## What is Gemini

Gemini is a simple protocol for serving content over the internet. It specifies a Markdown inspired format allowing basic plain text document markup. Compared to HTTP and HTML, Gemini is vastly simpler and easier to work with.

=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space/docs/faq.gmi Project Gemini FAQ
=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space/docs/specification.gmi Protocol and text/gemini specification

## Why not just use a web browser

Modern web browsers are complex beasts. In fact, they are so complex that one can create a fully functional virtual machine inside one and run another operating system!

=> https://win95.ajf.me Windows 95 on DOSBox (using Emscripten)

If one seeks to just read text and view images, this is absurd overkill. Having a universal platform that runs everywhere and on everything is clearly a valuable notion, but it comes with a hefty price tag. The software stack towers ever higher, and hardware needs to be ever more powerful and complicated to run it well. However, everything happening over the internet doesn't have to rely on this behemoth.

One way to browse Gemini content is via web browser extensions or proxies that translate the content for the web. This may be a sufficient and easy solution for you. However, native clients such as Lagrange also benefit from the simpleness of the protocol and the content. The experience can be optimized, and the software runs well even on simple hardware like the Raspberry Pi.

# User interface

## URL entry and quick search

The URL input field is in its typical location in the navigation bar. It can be accessed quickly by pressing ${CTRL+}L.

As you enter text, Lagrange starts looking for matches in bookmarks, history, content of cached pages, and identities. Search terms are case insensitive, and if many words are entered, they are all required to appear in the specified order in any matched content. Search of cached pages is limited to the (small) set of pages that Lagrange keeps in memory for back navigation.

## Sidebar

The sidebar can be toggled via menus or by pressing ${SHIFT+}${CTRL+}L. It has four tabs:

* Bookmarks: List of bookmarks that you've created. These appear first in search results for quick and easy access.
* History: Chronological list of visited URLs. This is not a full history of all the URLs you've accessed over time — only unique URLs are shown at the latest access time.
* Identities: TLS client certificates.
* Outline: List of the headings in the currently open tab. Useful when reading longer documents.

## Navigation

### Opening links using the keyboard

When navigating via keyboard, hold down ${ALT} to see link shortcut keys. Try doing so now and see how the link icon below is replaced with a number.

=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space/ Project Gemini

Each visible link on the page gets an alphanumeric shortcut. For example, the first link can be opened by pressing ${ALT+}1. The tenth link is ${ALT+}A. Additionally hold down ${CTRL} to open the link in a new tab.

## Bookmarks

## Managing and using identities

TLS client certificates used to identify you.

# Runtime files

* bookmarks.txt
* idents.binary and idents/
* prefs.cfg
* state.binary
* trusted.txt
* visited.txt

# Platform-specific instructions

# Compiling from source

# Open source licenses

Lagrange itself is distributed under the BSD 2-clause license:
=> https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause  The 2-Clause BSD License
=> https://git.skyjake.fi/skyjake/lagrange.git  Lagrange Git Repository

> Copyright 2020 Jaakko Keränen
>
> Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
>
> 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
>
> 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
>
> THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

## SDL

SDL 2.0 and newer are available under the zlib license:
=> https://www.zlib.net/zlib_license.html ZLIB License

> This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software.
>
> Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions:
>
> 1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not required.
>
> 2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software.
>
> 3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

## the_Foundation

the_Foundation is an opinionated C11 library by Jaakko Keränen. It is under the BSD 2-clause license. Note that the rest of the libraries in this section are used by the_Foundation, and not directly by Lagrange.
=> https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause  The 2-Clause BSD License
=> https://git.skyjake.fi/skyjake/the_Foundation.git  the_Foundation Git Repository

## OpenSSL

OpenSSL 1.1.1 is under a double license, which both apply to the library.
=> https://www.openssl.org/source/license-openssl-ssleay.txt OpenSSL and SSLeay Licenses

> Copyright (c) 1998-2019 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
>
> Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
>
> 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
>
> 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
>
> 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
>
> 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior written permission. For written permission, please contact openssl-core@openssl.org.
>
> 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL" nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written permission of the OpenSSL Project.
>
> 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
>
> THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
>
> This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).

SSLeay license:

> Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)
> All rights reserved.
>
> This package is an SSL implementation written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com). The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.
>
> This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA, lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).
>
> Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in the code are not to be removed. If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution as the author of the parts of the library used. This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.
>
> Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
>
> 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
>
> 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
>
> 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)" The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the library being used are not cryptographic related :-).
>
> 4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement: "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"
>
> THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
>
> The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be copied and put under another distribution licence [including the GNU Public Licence.]

## GNU libunistring

The libunistring library is covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL):
=> https://www.gnu.org/software/libunistring/manual/libunistring.html#GNU-LGPL GNU LGPL License

## Fonts

This application uses fonts licensed under the Open Font License.

=> https://github.com/mozilla/Fira/blob/master/LICENSE  Fira Sans, Fira Mono
=> https://github.com/googlefonts/nunito/blob/master/OFL.txt  Nunito
=> https://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-sans-pro/blob/release/LICENSE.md  Source Sans Pro

Additional fonts:

=> https://github.com/googlefonts/noto-emoji/blob/master/LICENSE  Noto Emoji (Apache License 2.0)
=> https://dn-works.com/ufas/  Symbola (Public Domain)