```LAGRANGE
           __   __             __   ___
|     /\  / _` |__)  /\  |\ | / _` |__
|___ /~~\ \__> |  \ /~~\ | \| \__> |___

```
# Release notes

## 1.17 (6)
* Fixed a few small memory leaks.
* Fixed unnecessary copying of data while waiting for an audio buffer to become playable. This potentially caused the operating system to terminate the app due to excessive memory use.
* Gopher: Detect audio media type from file extension with the `s` item type (it's not always WAV).
* Content that uses `charset=utf-8` is checked for validity. If the encoding is invalid, the content is instead decoded as CP437 (if it has ANSI escapes; possibly it's ASCII art) or just Latin-1.
* Modified rule for when 'text/plain' is assumed to actually be 'text/gemini' based on the file extension.
* Updated UI translations.

## 1.17 (4)
* Tabs opened in background are immediately added to the URL history.
* Fixed initial scope of a created identity when using the default selection.
* Fixed current text selection extending during scrolling even after mouse button has been released.
* Fixed inline image loading indicator overdrawing itself, becoming unreadable.
* ANSI Cursor Forward control sequence ("CSI n C") is converted to a series of spaces, but only in preformatted text.
* Fixed parsing of ANSI SGR sequences with many attributes concatenated (e.g., 0;1;40;30).
* Updated UI translations.

## 1.17 (3)
* Added "Vibrant Light" color theme.
* Improved readability of "Colorful Light" headings.
* Preformatted blocks no longer switch to a smaller font to fit to the page.
* (iPad) Fixed incorrect display scaling when launching the app in Slide Over or Split View mode.
* Fixed horizontal scrolling issues with preformatted blocks: only scroll if needed, allow scrolling anywhere on the block and not just on non-empty text lines, and when scrolling disallow swipe navigation over the area.
* Fixed visual artifacts around and next to preformatted blocks (e.g., streaking).
* Fixed potential crash after (un)folding a preformatted block.
* Fixed links being non-clickable after searching text on a page has scrolled the view. 
* Fixed scroll position being reset when reloading the page.
* Fixed missing page context menu items.
* Fixed "View as Plain Text" context menu item after reloading a page.
* Strip any null characters from the page source during whitespace normalization.

## 1.17 (2)
* Long-press actions on the toolbar: provide access to all the available toolbar actions. Open Settings > Identities by long-pressing on the Identity button.
* Snippets: A collection of short text segments that can be pasted into input prompts and the upload editor. For example, useful for your gemlog header/footer and other often-repeated entries.
* Snippets can be managed in Settings > Snippets and created via the link context menu or by selecting text on a page.
* Custom search queries: Snippets whose name starts with a bang (e.g., "!w") can be invoked in the URL field to make customized queries. The snippet content should be a Gemini search URL, for example: "gemini://gemi.dev/cgi-bin/wp.cgi/search".
* Quick lookup shows matching snippets as a new type of search result.
* Recently submitted input prompt contents are saved persistently and can be restored via the Ellipsis utility menu in the prompt dialog.
* You can force the input prompt to appear before a certain URL is requested so you can enter a query string. This is useful for avoiding an extra request when it is known that a URL will require input (e.g., search engine, game input).
* When importing links as bookmarks, you can optionally create subfolders from headings. You can also choose a destination folder for the imported bookmarks.
* Quickly add/move a bookmark into a folder with the navbar bookmark button context menu (long-press on ðŸ·ï¸).
* User-selectable feed refresh interval. Previously the interval been hardcoded to four hours. (Based on a patch by Michael Nordmeyer.)
* Setting to never/always collapse preformatted blocks, disabling the ability to toggle the folding.
* "Fold All" and "Unfold All" in Bookmarks sidebar context menu.
* "Search" context menu item on selected text to make a search query with it.
* "Use as Search URL" in link context menu.
* Menus can have submenus. Several of the old menus were reorganized accordingly. For example, the page context menu has a Tools submenu for translation, Titan uploads, etc.
* "Mark All Links as Visited" in the Tools submenu of the page context menu.
* Support for the Nex protocol (nex://nightfall.city/nex/info/specification.txt).
* Show unsupported media types as plain text if the content is valid UTF-8 encoded text.
* The page scrolls while selecting text near top/bottom.
* Display a logo graphic in empty windows/tabs as a placeholder.
* Auto-hide sidebars when resizing a window/split if the document area would become narrower than the sidebar.
* Adjusted colors of the Import Identity dialog.
* Tuned theme color palette and improved background colors of "Colorful Light".
* Newly created client certificates have a default expiration date in the year 9999, which means they won't expire. One can still also set a specific date as before.
* Fixed incorrect name displayed in page banner when URL query string contains a tilde name.
* Fixed glitches during swipe navigation. Behavior is more robust at ends of history and when content is not immediately available in cache.
* Top safe area is filled correctly during swipe animations.
* Fixed a text rendering issue where glyphs were incorrect when preceded by a Narrow No-Break Space.
* Fixed text selection glitch where the first selected word would become partially selected when dragging.

## 1.16 (5)
* Fixed crash when the contents of a link line would fail to be recognized as valid characters.
* Empty new tabs are appended to the right edge. Previously they were inserted next to the active tab.
* Improved tab closing order: close all sibling tabs opened from an origin tab before switching back to the origin tab.
* Remove whitespace from ends of a URL entered into an input field.

## 1.16 (4)
* Fixed missing debug symbols.

## 1.16 (3)
* Fixed links whose label is a single Emoji sometimes not appearing.
* The navbar URL field only omits the "gemini:" scheme when the text actually doesn't fit horizontally, and only when the field is inactive.
* Fixed problems with handling URLs in input fields. For example, copying the URL to the clipboard sometimes had unexpected or incorrect results.
* Updated UI translations.

## 1.16 (2)
* Fixed broken Titan uploads due to the contents of the upload path field being mishandled.

## 1.16 (1)
* The "gemini://" scheme is shown in active URL input fields even when omitted otherwise.
* Preferences: Changed order of network settings.
* Preferences: Added option for silently following scheme-changing redirects (Network tab; default: no).
* Tab creation and closing follows common browser conventions: new tabs are opened next to the most recently opened tab, so they retain the correct left-to-right order.
* Page title in margin omits prefix Emoji if it matches the bookmark icon.
* Adjusted word-wrapping to break at a period inside a word (e.g., domain names).
* If the page is missing a level 1 heading, use the first content line as the title.
* Fixed incorrect parsing of "hostname:port" in URL field (without `//` or `gemini://`).
* Fixed input query dialogs not being hidden when the tab changes.
* Fixed potential crash when switching between cached pages while navigating in history.
* Fixed potential crash when closing split view during a scrolling animation.
* Updated UI translations.

## 1.15 (7)
* Fixed tab order getting reversed when restoring tabs at launch.
* Fixed order of opened tabs when using "Open in New Tabs" on a bookmark folder.

## 1.15 (6)
* Added new UI translation: Basque (euskara).
* Improved opening and closing of tabs. New tabs now open to the right of the current tab.
* Allow scaling up small images up to 2x size.
* Fixed opening URLs via other apps when Lagrange is not running and has to be launched.
* Fixed possible crash when closing tabs.
* Updated UI translations.

## 1.15 (5)
* Added 19 new translated languages, "Auto-detect" source language, and an option to skip preformatted blocks when translating.
* Fixed several bugs in processing page contents for translation.
* Fixed crash when swiping a sidebar open in split view.
* Fixed handling of redirects when fetching subscribed feed pages.
* Fixed handling of redirects in the inline media player and file downloader.
* Fixed saving the "Split view pinning" setting so it doesn't reset when relaunching the app.
* Fixed scroll position being sometimes slightly off when relaunching the app.

## 1.15 (4)
* Settings: Long labels are wrapped to fit in view.
* Fixed animation glitch when swiping away Settings and other dialogs.
* Fixed animation issue during swipe navigation. There was a premature refresh occurring during the transition.
* Fixed issues with retaining scroll position during swipe navigation.
* Fixed tab context menu closing instantly when long-pressing a tab button.
* Fixed tab bar background not extending into the safe area in landscape phone layout.

## 1.15 (3)
* Added a basic launch screen transition for a cleaner startup.
* Removed the [+] button from the tab bar in portrait phone layout to conserve space. (New tabs can be created via the navbar menu or via customized toolbar buttons.)
* Centered footer info text for better balance, and now it's hidden below the page in the overscroll area.
* Updated SDL to v2.26.2.

## 1.15 (2)
* Tab reordering: tab buttons are draggable.
* Native popups for basic context menus: navbar menu, page menu, various dropdowns in Settings (e.g., UI language, theme colors), identity selection. Requires iOS 14 or newer. Complex/long-press popup menus remain non-native.
* Improved item grouping in the navbar menu.
* Footer information moved under the page content, out of the margin area. This information is now visible on the phone as well.
* iPad: Swiping from edge either shows the sidebar or navigates back/forward. There is a new indicator near the navbar showing the area where sidebar showing will happen.

## 1.15 (1)
* Added auto-reload indicator (reload button shown as outline).
* Added UI settings to toggle edge/on-page navigation swipe gestures.
* Fixed a possible crash when closing tabs in split view mode.

## 1.14 (5)
* Fixed tab with pinned identity not closing if it's the last tab that's being closed.
* Fixed hang when setting a folder's parent to itself in the Edit Folder dialog.
* Updated UI translations.

## 1.14 (4)
* Fixed pinned identity being forgotten when navigating to parent/root.
* Improved layout of the bookmark editor dialog.
* Avoid over-saturating green text in the Colorful Dark theme.
* Updated UI translations.
* iPad: Fixed New Identity dialog jumping around when pressing "More...".
* iPad: Adjusted threshold for tight navbar layout.

## 1.14 (3)
* Settings: Added a "User Data" section for export/import and listing bookmarks, feeds, and downloads.
* Improved behavior of pinned bookmark identities.
* Indicate a pinned identity with an outline icon in the toolbar.
* When creating new identities, make it clearer what the scope of usage will be. The UI actions explicitly say "New Identity for Domain" when the default usage will be the entire domain.
* Page scroll position is kept when loading finishes, if the user already scrolled during loading.
* Scroll indicators fade away in Settings are other dialogs as expected.
* Fixed non-functional Edit button in the Bookmarks tab of the right sidebar.
* Fixed accidental backwards navigation when quickly refreshing the page twice.
* Fixed "More..." button staying visible in identity creation dialog.
* Fixed opening downloaded files in another app.
* Adjusted input field margins.

## 1.14 (2)
New features:
* A bookmark folder can be opened in new tabs, one tab per contained bookmark.
* New bookmark property "Set identity": use a specific identity when opening the bookmark, but don't apply it persistently on the bookmarked URL.

Changes and enhancements:
* Revised swipe gestures: back/forward swipe can be started anywhere on the page. Swiping from the left/right edge brings up the corresponding sidebar on iPad and landscape iPhone. The sidebar can be swiped away.
* MIME types of many new file extensions are recognized (courtesy of John Cowan).
* Updated UI translations.

Fixes:
* Schemeless relative URLs no longer assume "gemini" as the scheme, instead using the current page's scheme as default.
* Opening a feed entry in a background tab will mark is as read, like opening in the foreground does.
* ANSI escapes 39 and 49 (reset FG/BG color to default) were not working.
* Fixed a layout issue in the translation dialog.
* Cleaned up a few UI labels.

## 1.13 (4)
* Fixed issues with text selection and range visualization.

## 1.13 (3)
* Fixed reporting of errors related to a proxy server certificate.
* An untrusted proxy server certificate can be trusted via Page Information.
* Updated UI translations.

## 1.13 (2)
* Fixed showing error page for an empty server response.
* Fixes for Spartan: query strings, input prompt default content, empty paths.
* Added Spartan URL handler.

## 1.13 (1)
New features:
* URL field indicator ðŸ”– that shows if there's a bookmark for the current page. Clicking on the indicator opens the Add/Edit Bookmark dialog. It is always shown on iPads and on landscape mode on smaller devices.
* Support for the Spartan protocol. Prompt lines will open an input dialog for submitting text. This can be expanded to the full upload dialog using which a file can be uploaded, too.
* Reopening the last closed tab.
* Page context menu item "View as Plain Text".
* Option to view Markdown as source or as a Gemtext conversion (default: as source).
* Checking server certificates using a bundled root CA file, for instance when the server is using a Let's Encrypt certificate.

Changes and enhancements:
* Updated Noto Emoji font with support for Unicode 14. There should be no more missing Emoji glyphs.
* When bookmarking a page, show the Edit Bookmark dialog if there's already a bookmark for the URL. The Edit Bookmark dialog has a new Duplicate button for actually making a duplicate bookmark.
* Markdown documents support horizontal rules.

Fixes:
* Show a proper error page if server closes the connection before a header is fully received.
* Sidebar page outline not updated when the current tab changes.

## 1.12 (3)
* Importing exported user data archives.
* Settings: Added "Export User Data".
* Feeds: Added "Mark Below as Read".
* No more extra fields in bookmark dialog when editing a folder.
* Fixed invalid contents appearing in the overscroll areas of lists.

## 1.12 (2)
* Changed appearance of many dialogs to use a card layout instead of fullscreen.
* Input prompts appear next to the keyboard, putting action buttons more within reach.
* Added Import and Create actions on the Identities page in Settings.
* Adjusted UI layout of Settings. The title of the current page appears in the top bar, together with any relevant actions.
* Changed appearance of the pull down indicator.
* Fixed glitches with showing and hiding lookup results.
* Fixed incorrect document width after changing orientation from landscape to portrait.
* iPad: Fixed positioning of input prompts when the sidebar is visible.

## 1.12 (1)
* Roboto is the new default content/UI font.
* Added option to move the URL field and/or the tab bar at the bottom.
* Toggles use symbols instead of YES/NO.
* UI uses only one accent color at a time.
* Added new UI accent colors: Red, Green, Blue, Gray.
* Added new content theme "Oceanic" with support for both dark and light modes.
* Adjusted generated palettes of Colorful Dark/Light.
* Improved the Sepia theme, and added a dark mode variant.
* Added style option to justify long paragraphs.
* Text renderer uses additional subpixel offsets with lower-density displays.
* Text rendering optimizations: avoid repeated shaping of the same text.
* Fixed occasional small gaps between glyph backgrounds.
* Fixed problems with marking feed entries as read/unread.

## 1.11 (1)
âš ï¸ Downgrading back to v1.10 causes all site-specific themes to be forgotten.

New features:
* Site-specific settings dialog: theme customization and showing ANSI escape warnings. The custom theme is based on a "seed string" chosen by the user.
* Fontpack search. Fonts in the skyjake.fi font library have been indexed based on all the glyphs they provide, so one can look up which fontpacks provide any missing glyphs.
* "Tab width" setting (default: 8). This controls how TAB characters are displayed on pages.
* Setting for maximum valid URI length on 'text/gemini' link lines.
* Option to show images decoded from data URLs immediately after loading a page. This is limited to JPEG, PNG, WebP, and GIF (no animations).
* TLS session caching: reduces the need for redundant handshaking by keeping old TLS sessions cached for 10 minutes.
* UI language for Italian.

Changes and enhancements:
* The input prompt dialog saves entered text persistently, just like the Upload dialog. This prevents losing text if the dialog is closed accidentally.
* The missing glyphs warning dialog now shows a list of the missing code points.
* Abbreviate font pack descriptions on "about:fonts". The full description is shown when viewing a single fontpack.
* The active tab button uses the theme background color if the page color theme has a bright colorful background to avoid clashing with the UI accent color.
* Adjusted colors of the Gray and Black page themes.
* Added additional (small) variations to theme hues.
* Data URLs have their own link icon.

Fixes:
* Incorrect behavior and UI glitches related to data URLs. The UI will now omit the encoded part of data URLs.
* Occasional mismatch between page and banner backgrounds. It was due to loss of precision when converting colors to 8-bit RGB.
* TAB characters are no longer forcibly normalized to spaces.
* Pasting LF characters in the URL field should not be possible.

## 1.10 (12)
* Tapping the status bar area scrolls the page to the top.
* "/index.gmi" is considered equal to "/" when navigating to parent directory.
* Fixed crash when a media player is active and a new download is started.
* Fixed crash when a line contains nothing but an ANSI escape sequence.
* Fixed height of navbar buttons on iPad.

## 1.10 (11)
* Fixed cancelling an input query. Now pressing Cancel will navigate back to the previous page as intended.
* Gopher: Fixed navigating to parent. Set item type to 1 to show a gophermap and not the plain source.
* Updated Smol Emoji: added the rest of Unicode 8 Emoji glyphs.

## 1.10 (10)
* Fixed a hang when tapping "New Folder" while editing bookmarks.
* Bug fixes, improvements, and updated UI translations from the desktop version (v1.10.1).

## 1.10 (9)
* Added "Share" actions for downloaded files (via "Download Linked File") and selected text on page.
* Added "Edit Page with Titan": opens the Upload dialog with the page contents prefilled (previous contents are lost!).
* Inlining `image/*` responses into the current document regardless of file extension in URL.
* Fixed glitch with banner not being visible until page has finished loading.
* Fixed possible crash when creating a bookmark.

## 1.10 (7)
* Link context menu shows used identity and date of last visit in addition to the URL.
* Removed the "Show URL on hover" setting. URLs are shown in the link context menu.
* Inline image metadata goes under the image instead of possibly overlapping the image caption text.
* Improved appearance of hover/open link highlighting. It no longer goes under the side elements on the page.
* Gempub: Open books in 1:2 split mode instead of 1:1.
* Fixed opening links in split view mode. Links would open on the wrong side.
* Upgraded SDL to version 2.0.18.

## 1.10 (6)
* Added "Paste Preceding Line" in the input prompt dialog. Potential use cases include user-editable sections on a page and suggested/example input values.
* Fixed UI glitches and a potential memory leak when navigating via swipes. Sometimes swipe navigation would stop working because animation placeholders were not destroyed.
* Fixed Settings background fade.
* Fixed sidebar background fade in portrait phone layout.

## 1.10 (5)
* Fixed positioning of native UI controls in non-animated input widgets.
* Fixed input widgets not reacting to keyboard being dismissed by system.
* iPad: Faster back swipe animation.

## 1.10 (4)
* Fixed crash when closing sidebar in bookmark edit mode.
* Fixed incorrect initial height of an unfocused multiline input widget.
* Fixed lookup results having too narrow a width.
* Fixed padding at bottom of the upload text editor.
* Fixed missing "Folder" field in the bookmark editor. Edited bookmarks would be moved to the root folder.
* Fixed missing "Glyph Warnings" toggle in Settings.
* Removed "Return Key Behavior" from Settings since it has no effect.
* Minor improvements in page caching.
* Tuned page swipe animations.
* Optimized UI layout updates.
* Audio subsystem is only initialized when actually needed.
* Prevent state file corruption if the app happens to get killed while state is being saved.

## 1.10 (3)
* Revised layout of the Upload dialog. There is a new edit field that lets you modify the file path of the URL. Identity names are in bold.
* Added an edit actions menu in the Upload text editor (only in portrait phone layout for now).
* Fixed persistent storage of the Upload text field contents.
* Fixed input widget positioning and behavior in the Upload dialog.
* Fixed minimum width of main panel in dialogs.
* Fixed use of cached content when the same URL was found multiple times in history. Previously, only the latest page was used.
* Changed input field tint color to match chosen UI accent color.
* Optimized memory use during UI event processing.

## 1.10 (2)
* Fixed pull-to-refresh on short pages.
* Fixed URL field contents not being clipped to widget bounds.
* Fixed major glitches in back/forward swipe navigation, e.g., top banner showing incorrect contents, incorrect theme colors, scroll position jumping.
* Fixed major and minor UI element positioning glitches, e.g., native text fields, maximum height of input fields, input length counter, Translate dialog.
* Fixed inappropriate font sizes, e.g., sidebar action labels.
* Fixed color issues: tint color of native input, and footer buttons not being prominent enough.
* Bookmarks: In Edit mode, folders still get (un)folded when tapped.
* Feeds: Added "No Unread Entries" message.
* Identities: Show the current page's URL in the context menu to make it clearer what "This Page" refers to.

## 1.10 (1)
* Use native iOS text input UI controls for entering text.
* Pull-to-refresh on pages.
* Redesigned phone sidebar that mimics Safari on iPhone. Opens half-height for better reachability of tab buttons, can be swiped up and down.
* Bookmark edit mode for reordering and organizing bookmarks into folders.
* Sidebar has new action buttons for Feeds and History.
* Identity toolbar button has been revised for quickly switching between alternate identities for current site, and opening Settings > Identities.
* Settings: Managing identities.
* Settings: Improved widgets used in button/radio groups to closer match iOS design.
* Settings: Added new options from desktop version.
* Mobile-friendly layout for value input dialogs.
* Various animation issues fixes, e.g., context menu animations on iPad.
* Various layout issues fixed, e.g., related to safe area insets.
