```LAGRANGE
           __   __             __   ___
|     /\  / _` |__)  /\  |\ | / _` |__
|___ /~~\ \__> |  \ /~~\ | \| \__> |___

```
# Release notes

## 1.10.3
* Added a man page.
* "/index.gmi" is considered equal to "/" when navigating to parent directory.
* Fixed crash when a media player is active and a new download is started.
* Fixed a possible crash when saving state of subscribed feeds.
* Fixed the right-hand sidebar handling the U and Shift+U key events if it was showing the Feeds tab, even though the sidebar was hidden.

## 1.10.2
* Fixed cancelling an input query. Now pressing Cancel will navigate back to the previous page as intended.
* Gopher: Fixed navigating to parent. Set item type to 1 to show a gophermap and not the plain source.
* macOS: Workaround for a crash when launching. Prevent event processing from being triggered while the app window is becoming visible for the first time.
* Fixed a build issue on Haiku OS.
* Updated Smol Emoji: added the rest of Unicode 8 Emoji glyphs.

## 1.10.1
* Fixed bottom actions of the Feeds sidebar getting hidden when all entries are read. This prevented switching between Unread/All filter modes.
* Fixed potential crash when downloading a large file (e.g., a fontpack).
* Linux: SDL event handling workaround adjusted to only apply to 2.0.18+.
* Updated UI translations.

## 1.10
New features:
* macOS: Trackpad swipe navigation.
* Customizable navbar actions. Right-click on a button to change its action. (Identity and hamburger buttons cannot be changed.)
* Identity toolbar menu can be used to switch between alternate identities. If you have used multiple identities on one site, this makes it more convenient to switch between them.
* Added "Edit Page with Titan": opens the upload dialog with current page's content prefilled.
* Added "Paste Preceding Line" in the input prompt dialog. Potential use cases include user-editable sections on a page and suggested/example input values.
* Added footer action to open file in another app when the media type is unsupported.
* Added option to disable cursor blinking in input fields.
* Added ANSI SGR codes for light and regular font weights (2, 10).
* macOS: Added "Show in Finder" in the Identities sidebar.

Changes and enhancements:
* Improved image inlining: all responses with an image media type can get inlined, regardless of the file extension in the URL.
* Inline image metadata goes under the image instead of possibly overlapping the label text.
* Inline downloads have a context menu for relevant actions, and clicking on the download opens the file.
* Improved highlighting of open pages. The highlight no longer goes under the side elements on the page.
* Entry dates in feed links are de-emphasized for improved readability.
* Revised link hover popup. None of the information appears on the same line any more (which was problematic if there wasn't enough space). Instead, everything is shown in a popup at the bottom/top of the view, including the identity that will be used when opening the link and the date of last visit.
* Revised layout of the Upload dialog. There is a new edit field that lets you modify the file path of the URL. Identity names are in bold.
* Optimized UI layout procedure and memory use during UI event processing.
* Audio subsystem is only initialized when actually needed.
* Prevent state file corruption if the app happens to get killed while state is being saved.
* Gempub: Open books in 1:2 split mode instead of 1:1.
* Minor improvements in page caching.
* Detect when text is Bengali, Devanagari, Oriya, or Tamil.

Fixes:
* Fixed a history caching issue: if there were multiple instances of the same URL in history, only the latest one's content would be used when navigating back/forward.
* Fixed handling of reserved characters in URLs (cf. RFC 3986, section 2.2).
* Fixed the copy/paste context menu not showing in input fields.
* Fixed duplicated warnings showing in the page banner.
* Fixed very narrow input fields causing the app to hang.
* Fixed initial scroll position in multiline input fields.
* Fixed layout issues in the sidebar on empty Feeds and Identities tabs.
* Fixed lookup results list becoming too narrow.
* Fixed glitches when a widget has multiple simultanous animations.
* Fixed mixed-language CJK word wrapping.
* Fixed parsing Atom feed dates with leading whitespace.
* Windows: Fixed installing individual TrueType fonts via drag and drop.
* macOS: Fixed high CPU usage during audio playback and UI animations.
* macOS: Line breaks inside menu items (e.g., info about current identity).

## 1.9.5
* Fixed misshapen button borders (SDL 2.0.16 line drawing workaround).
* Fixed actions being triggered when navigating via home row keys.
* macOS: Fixed native menu items being triggered when navigating via home row keys.
* macOS: Fixed native menu items triggering when changing key bindings.

## 1.9.4
* Fixed crash when a link is missing both URL and label (just a `=>`).
* Fixed handling of foreground color escapes in the simple text renderer.
* Updated UI translations.
* Upgraded SDL to 2.0.18.

## 1.9.3
* Added UI language for Dutch.
* Updated UI translations.
* Fixed the simple text renderer (build error, hanging).
* Fixed time zone of the "valid from" time in created client certificates.
* macOS: Fixed selecting scope for a newly created identity.

## 1.9.2
* Windows: Use the correct version number for update checks.
* Fixed possible crash when switching Feeds sidebar filter mode via the popup menu.
* Shorter label for "Mark All as Read" in Feeds sidebar actions.
* In popup menus, differentiate between selected item and hover item.
* Updated UI translations.

## 1.9.1
* Added "24-Hour Time" preference. Currently it only affects the page timestamp in the bottom left corner.
* Heading level 3 is indented like regular text lines, making the difference to level 2 evident.
* Fixed crash when creating a top-level bookmark.
* Fixed drawing the page timestamp.
* Fixed layout of tab buttons and other resizing widgets so all available space is used.
* Fixed tab close buttons preventing activation of very short tab buttons. The close buttons only appear if there is room for them.
* Fixed very short tab labels not getting truncated.
* Fixed the New Tab button not staying at the right edge of the window, depending on how many tabs are open.

## 1.9
New features:
* Added a toolbar button for toggling the left sidebar.
* Added an unsplit button in the toolbar when in split view mode.
* Choose parent folder when creating or editing a bookmark.
* Support for 24-bit RGB ANSI color sequences.
* Support for ANSI background color escapes (disabled by default).
* macOS: Automatic updates using the Sparkle framework.
* Windows: Automatic updates using the WinSparkle library.
* UI language for Turkish.

Changes and enhancements:
* Adjusted font styles of heading levels 2 and 3.
* Sidebar context menus also appear when clicking over the sidebar background. In this case the menu contains general functions not related to any item.
* Feeds tab in the sidebar has a redesigned action toolbar with "Mark All as Read", and dropdown menu and keyboard shortcuts for changing the filter mode.
* Feeds tab remembers the unread/all filter mode persistently.
* ANSI foreground colors are modified to match colored theme backgrounds (e.g., Sepia).
* Navigating back and forward in history will skip input query prompts (status 1x), showing only the query results. 
* Ctrl+A now selects all text in input fields (except on macOS, where it remains the Emacs-style jump to start/end of line).
* The resource bundle (resources.lgr) is now a regular ZIP archive. This allows it to do double duty as a fontpack containing the built-in fonts. The archive contains a version number to avoid use of obsolete resources.

Fixes:
* Fixed layout issues related to footer action buttons. Sometimes the buttons would overlap page content.
* Fixed handling duplicate feed entries: if multiple entries in a feed have the same URL, only use the first one.

## 1.8.3
* Fixed clicking on UI elements that are over the page top banner. The banner would always get clicked instead.
* Titan upload identity is remembered as a site-specific setting. It is no longer affected by selections in the Identities sidebar.
* macOS: Fixed updating items in native menus, e.g., upload identity selection.

## 1.8.2
* Fixed encoding of `+` characters in URLs as per RFC 3986.
* Fixed crash when fontpack.ini specifies a file that cannot be found.
* Fixed incorrect title of some error messages (was showing response meta info).
* Fixed ambiguous font dropdown menu items if some fonts have the same name. Now the unique font ID will be included in these cases.
* Made it possible to manually trust a certificate whose subject doesn't match domain name.
* Updated UI translations.

## 1.8.1
* Added UI translations: Hungarian, Czech.
* Added the `zip` utility as a build requirement. It is used for making fontpacks.
* Fixed build failure with the simple text renderer, i.e., when HarfBuzz is disabled.
* Fixed issues scrolling tall popup menus (e.g., UI language selection).
* Fixed a line spacing artifact in long headings. With some fonts, the lines were clipping each other so the spacing was restored to normal.
* Fixed a socket I/O issue that caused received data to be ignored when the peer closed the connection prematurely.
* macOS: Tab close buttons are on the left side (platform UI convention).
* Gopher: Recognize both LF and CRLF line endings in page content.

## 1.8
⚠️ Font settings will be reset to defaults. Only a minimal set of fonts is bundled with the app. If additional fonts are needed, one can use custom TrueType fonts or download some from the Font Library:
=> gemini://skyjake.fi/fonts/

New features:
* Added a customizable font library. Open "about:fonts" to view and manage the installed fonts.
* Added TrueType fonts as a recognized content type. When one is viewed in the app (e.g., via a drag-and-drop), there is an option to install it as a user font.
* Added fontpacks: ZIP archives containing one or more TrueType fonts and parameters about how they should be used.
* Added support for TrueType collections (.ttc).
* Added new font options: separate preformatted and monospace body fonts, UI font, smoothing.
* Added style option to show all links as bold regardless of visited status.
* Added warning message about missing font glyphs.
* Added warning message about terminal emulation. Lagrange supports a small subset of ANSI escape sequences, so page appearance may be incorrect when these are used in content.
* Added tab close buttons.
* Added a feed subscription option to exclude web links (HTTP/HTTPS), since those are not viewable in the app by default. 
* Added an automatic conversion of Markdown to Gemtext when viewing local files. (Not all Markdown features are supported.)
* Added UI language for Ukrainian (uk).

Changes and enhancements:
* Removed all alternative built-in content fonts.
* The default content font is Source Sans, same as the UI font.
* Redesigned error/warning messages. These now show up as part of the page top banner, and their appearance can no longer be replicated via Gemtext.
* Warning messages are interactive. Click on them to perform relevant actions.
* Per-pixel scrolling in input fields (e.g., when using a trackpad on macOS).
* "file://" pages are always unthemed.
* Show a byte counter during large downloads instead of instantly jumping to a content view. Content may not viewable correctly until the download has finished.
* Site-specific settings (sitespec.txt) converted to .ini format. These are currently used for the Titan upload port and remembering which warnings have been dismissed.
* macOS: One can choose between Black/Dark and Light/White UI palette when system color theme is enabled. Previously the system theme always switched to either Dark or Light.

Fixes:
* Fixed an issue where the page is unscrollable until the mouse cursor is moved (wrong hover state).
* Fixed wrapping of long input prompts and dialog messages.
* Titan upload token is remembered when the dialog is closed.
* Fixed various layout issues with page footer buttons.
* Fixed theme change glitches when an input prompt appears.
* macOS: Fixed forced unhiding of the dock when the app is launched.

## 1.7.3
* Fixed a memory leak in the text renderer.
* Added option to place new bookmarks to the top of the bookmarks list.
* Updated UI translations.

## 1.7.2
* Fixed regressions in text selection, for example when marking text leftwards from the start position or when starting from outside any text run. 
* Fixed a crash when clicking on Outline sidebar items before a page has finished loading.
* Gopher: Handle the `p` line type (PNG image).

## 1.7.1
* Fixed feed entries forgetting their (un)read status after several months.
* Fixed feed entries being discarded before they are removed from their source feed, causing them to reappear on the next refresh.
* Fixed failure to parse Atom feed entry timestamps that use space as the date/time separator.
* Fixed dropdown labels staying visible in the translation dialog.
* Fixed showing/hiding of the feed update indicator in split view.
* Fixed a crash when selecting text.
* Added a small progress bar to the feed update indicator.
* When adding a bookmark/folder, the bookmarks list scrolls to show the new item.
* Improved reordering bookmarks in a folder: an item inside a folder can be moved to be the last item in the folder, or out of the folder depending on which side of the boundary marker the mouse cursor is.

## 1.7
⚠️ Bookmarks file format has changed. Your existing bookmarks will be imported to the new format. The old bookmarks.txt file can be found in the config directory and is writable only by v1.6 and earlier versions.
⚠️ Saved UI state format has changed. Downgrading will reset window state, close all tabs, and clear the navigation cache.

New features:
* Added bookmark folders. Folders can be nested inside each other, and the fold state of each folder is remembered persistently (per sidebar).
* The Bookmarks export/list page uses subheadings (level 2 and 3) to represent folders.
* Added menu item to sort (a folder of) bookmarks alphabetically.
* Added identity selection in the Upload dialog.
* Added image colorization setting. Images can be viewed in grayscale or using the page's theme colors.
* Added UI focus cycling to all buttons with Tab and Shift+Tab. This includes dialog buttons and the navigation bar.
* Added a footer action to view `application/octet-stream` content depending on recognized file extensions.
* Added support for viewing WebP images. The libwebp library is an optional dependency and will be included in the build if found via pkg-config.
* Added command line options -w, -h for setting window size at launch.
* Added new UI languages: Esperanto, Spanish (Mexico), Galician, Interslavic, and Slovak. Note that some of these are still works in progress.

Changes and enhancements:
* Bookmarks are now ordered manually. You can drag and drop bookmarks in the list to change the order.
* The internal bookmarks file format is now a TOML subset instead of just being three text lines per bookmark, making it more robust and human-readable.
* Context menus and other popup menus that do not fit inside the window are split off into independent windows.
* macOS: Use native UI controls for context/popup menus. Note that this required making a couple of small changes to SDL (see the updated patch in the repository).
* Dropdown button menus position themselves on the currently selected item.
* Dialogs that don't fit inside the window have a scroll bar. Note that such dialogs can only be scrolled via mouse wheel/trackpad, not by dragging the bar.
* Adjusted mouse wheel smooth scrolling speed for better consistency. The default scrolling speeds were increased to level 2.
* Visited URLs are remembered for six months. This affects the unread status of feed entries and the visited status of links.
* Adjusted the UI color palette so that the alternative accent color is used more rarely. For example, input fields now use the primary accent color.
* Adjusted button hover/press colors for better consistency, particularly when the button label uses a non-standard color.
* Image links (as determined by file extension) automatically use a "photo" link icon if the URL is on the current site. This makes it clearer which links will likely show up as an inline image.
* Alt+Shift+Tab inserts a tab character in input fields.
* UI rendering optimizations. Some UI controls (e.g., navbar, menus) will buffer their contents so they can be drawn efficiently during animations.

Fixes:
* Fixed issues with subscribed feed entry tracking. Heading entries are not discarded until they are removed from the source.
* Fixed the sidebar unread entry count showing the wrong number after subscribing to a Headings feed.
* Fixed handling of tab characters in the Upload text editor (when using HarfBuzz).
* Fixed hang when wrapping a very long word (with HarfBuzz disabled).
* Fixed regressions in retaining window state, position, and size.
* Fixed URL encoding of the % character.
* Fixed ambiguous handling of colons in URI paths.
* Fixed issues with cursor positioning in multi-line input fields.
* Fixed issues with touch swipe events.
* X11: Ask SDL not to bypass the window compositor. This should avoid issues on KDE, for example.
* macOS: Fixed a flash of blank background color when launching the app.
* Windows: The main window title bar (when not using a custom frame) uses dark mode colors according to the UI color theme setting. Previously it was always stuck on light mode.

## 1.6.5
* Audio init errors are no longer fatal. SDL's error message will still be printed.
* Fixed appearance of tab buttons (should have no top frame).
* Fixed a cursor position regression in input fields related to handling of variation selectors (codepoint clusters). Moving the cursor to the start of a wrapped line segment put the cursor in the wrong place.
* Fixed right-clicking on sidebar tab buttons. It was showing the wrong context menu when the list had been scrolled down.
* Fixed crash when using the SDL2 KMSDRM video driver.
* Fixed minor visual artifacts in preformatted blocks and near the bottom of the page.

## 1.6.4
* Local files containing UTF-8 text can be viewed regardless of their file extension.
* Fixed input field cursor positioning and insertion problems around Emoji variation selectors.
* Fixed "Unknown Status Code" shown in Page Information for valid status codes.
* Fixed an issue with network requests that would make it appear the server was not responding, but the request would not time out.
* Fixed a potential invalid memory access when clicking on sidebar items.
* OpenBSD: Fixed a freeze after a network request is cancelled.
* Fixed page contents not reflowing during a window resize.
* Added build option ENABLE_RESIZE_DRAW. SDL doesn't redraw window contents on all platforms during resizing, so this can be used to force it.

## 1.6.3
* Select all text in an input field using Shift+Ctrl+A (macOS: ⌘A).
* Input fields do not lose focus when the window becomes inactive, making it easier to resume input afterwards.
* Fixed delay after switching to split view mode.
* Fixed what gets drawn in an empty tab, before a document is available for rendering (e.g., after switching to split view mode).
* Fixed highlighting the domain name in URL input fields.
* Fixed hiding the Gemini URL scheme in input fields when the window is narrow.
* Fixed the line break key modifier inadvertently affecting URL input fields, where line breaks are not allowed.
* Fixed the line break key modifier affecting the upload dialog's text field.
* Fixed a potential hang when closing a socket before the connection is fully opened.
* Updated translations.

## 1.6.2
* Added `--tab-url` to print currently active tab's URL.
* Upload dialog expands to full window height when the entered text is long.
* Home/End keys in an input field move to start/end of the wrapped line segment.
* Scroll with mouse wheel in input fields.
* Slower cursor blink rate in input fields.
* Adjusted dark mode colors for focused input fields.
* Fixed incorrect behavior in input fields when typing or deleting text while holding down the Shift key.
* Fixed crash in Upload dialog if server responds with a redirect.
* Fixed buffered graphics (UI, fonts) getting lost under rare circumstances.
* Fixed drawing of wrapped text when the app is compiled without HarfBuzz.
* macOS: Fixed UI not updating when system dark mode is toggled while the window is hidden.

## 1.6.1
* Fixed potential crash when inserting a line break in an input field.
* Fixed cursor positioning in fixed-length input fields.
* Fixed copying text in input fields (the wrong region was copied).
* Fixed URL input field contents not being selected after opening a new tab.
* Fixed Upload dialog not showing when reloading a Titan URL.
* Updated translations.

## 1.6
⚠️ A new TOFU trust store will be created. The old one is kept around but ignored.
⚠️ App state serialization format has been updated. Downgrading to a previous release will cause app state to be reset (e.g., tabs closed, navigation history cleared).
⚠️ New build dependencies: HarfBuzz and GNU FriBidi (see README).

New features:
* Added support for bidirectional text and complex scripts. العالم متنوع
* Right-to-left paragraphs are aligned to the right. Link icons and list/quote symbols are moved to the right margin.
* Added support for Titan uploads. The data to upload can be entered via a text field or by dropping a file on the window.
* Added a keybinding for opening the current page URL in the upload dialog (Ctrl+U/⌘U). This simply switches the page's URL scheme from `gemini` to `titan`.
* Added a configuration file for defining the UI color palette (see Help, section 3.5).
* Added settings for keyboard and mouse scrolling speeds.
* Added setting for changing Return key behavior in input fields (line break vs. accept).
* Added setting for adjusting line spacing.
* Added link context menu item for deleting local files (e.g., downloads).

Changes and enhancements:
* Improved TOFU: if the server certificate is not trusted, the connection is aborted at the TLS handshake stage. Previously, only a warning was shown and the page contents were fetched regardless.
* Server certificate fingerprints are generated based on public keys, which allows servers to renew their certificates without losing trusted status.
* Improved handling of expired server certificates. An error page is shown and the connection is aborted at the TLS handshake stage. The user can give a temporary exception to load the page.
* Page contents are cached in presentation form for quicker restoring during back/forward navigation.
* Inline images/audio will not get discarded during back/forward navigation. The Network > Memory Size setting determines the maximum memory usage for media. Setting the Memory Size to zero is equivalent to the previous behavior of discarding everything when the page changes.
* Debug information includes RAM use in addition to cache size. This includes document layout and media stored in memory (e.g., raw pixel data of images).
* Text input fields support larger amounts of content and expand vertically only up to a limit, after which they start scrolling.
* Preferences have been reorganized. There is a new Fonts tab, and some General settings have been moved to the Style tab. All color-related settings are on the Colors tab, including UI theme colors.
* Links opened on a page are updated to reflect visited status even when opening into a background tab or to the side.
* Unicode Byte Order Mark is ignored in the beginning of a page.
* Updated Smol Emoji with new characters.
* Query/Feeds indicators have a smaller appearance in a narrow window to leave room for the URL.

Fixes:
* Large lede paragraph font is not applied if the paragraph has too many lines.
* Fixed minor kerning issues when using Nunito.
* Fixed sizing of characters in the Noto Symbols fonts.
* Improved internal handling of URLs. For example, some URLs were not being recognized as visited because of percent-encoding differences.
* Fixed URL in the generated page for viewing a single image (spaces weren't encoded).
* Input dialog is not dismissed unless the Cancel button is clicked or Escape is pressed.
* Workaround for a potential hang during the closing of a socket.
* TLS client certificates generated by the app have identical issuer and subject fields, including all the provided information and not just the Common Name.
* Gopher: Improved detection of ASCII art.
* Gopher: Show contents of unrecognized line types.
* Gopher: Don't collapse preformatted blocks since everything is preformatted in the source.
* Gopher: All preformatted blocks are unindented to avoid misaligned ASCII art.
* macOS: ^⌘Space shows the system-provided symbols and Emoji character palette.

## 1.5.2
* Fixed pasting a PEM-formatted certificate and/or private key via clipboard in Import Identity.
* Possible workaround for a visual glitch in the URL field.
* Specify `StartupWMClass` in .desktop file.
* Normalize page contents to avoid the most common issues with diacritics (Unicode NFC).
* Expanded the set of recognized custom link icons.
* Updated "Smol Emoji" font with new glyphs.
* Allow use of TLS cipher "DHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384".

## 1.5.1
* Updated UI translations.
* Updated "Smol Emoji" font with new and improved glyphs.

## 1.5
* Added "Smol Emoji" and "Noto Sans Symbols" fonts, removed Symbola.
⚠️ Many Emoji and pictographs defined in the last five years are currently missing.
* Added document footer buttons: on certain pages (e.g., error messages) show relevant actions in the bottom of the page. For example, if a certificate is required for viewing a page, show buttons for creating a new identity and showing the Identities sidebar.
* Error pages include the human-readable text sent by the server.
* Disregard old feed entries whose unread status would have been forgotten.
* Added UI language: Polish.

Identity management:
* Revised New Identity dialog. An option is provided to automatically use the new identity on the current domain/page. The additional fields are hidden by default.
* Improved usability of Identities sidebar. No more accidental activations: left-clicking an identity opens the context menu without making any changes. The context menu shows each active URL as a menu item for easy access. Identity icons reflect the usage status: all identities used on the current domain get highlighted in addition to the currently used one.
* Identities can be exported: certificate and private key are opened in a new tab in plain text PEM format.
* Fixed issues with identity usage: a higher-up URL overrides and deactivates all contained URLs to avoid redundant activation.

Text input:
* Revised text input widgets: added support for multiple lines, and when entering user response to a query, show how many bytes are remaining for the response URL about to be submitted. In dialogs, input fields expand vertically instead of scrolling their content horizontally.
* Input widgets allow inserting newlines using Shift+Return.
* Disallow sending query responses that are too long (1024 bytes maximum).
* Shift-click to select a range of text in input widgets (i.e, without dragging).

Rendering:
* Animate showing and hiding of sidebars and dialogs. Animations are enabled by default, by can be disabled with Preferences > Interface > Animations.
* Added setting for a custom TrueType symbol font for any missing characters. Note: Must be a .TTF file — OpenType and bitmap fonts are not supported.
* Link navigation shortcut icons (home row and numbered) are drawn with a consistent appearance.
* Improved icon alignment in lists.
* Reduced line gap between word-wrapped top-level headings.
* Modal dialog background dimming fades in/out smoothly.
* macOS: Workaround for an issue that causes UI refresh to pause occasionally for ~100 ms.

Split view:
* Added keybindings for split view menu items.
* Changed default split view keys to conform to Emacs (3 for horizontal, 2 for vertical split).
* Fixes and improvements for touch screen event handling in split view mode.

Command line:
* Added --url-or-search (-u) command line option. Depending on the parameter, either open an URL or make a search query.
* Open all URLs/files specified on the command line in new tabs, and raise the window if the app is already running. (Kudos to Alyssa Rosenzweig.)

Gempub:
* Linear navigation through the book with Left/Right arrow keys and via footer buttons. The navigation order is determined by links on the Gempub index page.

## 1.4.2
* Fixed UI colors being all black on the first run.
* Fixed right mouse click on an inactive split not having any effect.
* Fixed action buttons showing under the Help link in an empty Identities sidebar.
* Fixed potential crash at shutdown.
* Fixed minor UI layout issues.

## 1.4.1
* Fixed removing the left side split by closing all its tabs. The URL input field got confused about which tab was currently open, and the wrong theme was active.
* Fixed tab merging when unsplitting the window: keep the currently active tab open.
* Fixed issue with sidebars sometimes becoming unresponsive.
* Fixed font used for visited monospace Gopher links.
* Fixed incorrectly shown/hidden ◧ indicator.
* Fixed scrollbar in Preferences > Keys being hidden until the list is scrolled.

## 1.4
* Added split view modes: two tabs at once, horizontal/vertical split, 1:1/2:1/1:2 weights, merge tabs, swap sides. See section 1.8 in Help for details.
* Split view pinning: keep a page pinned on one side while all opened links go to the other side.
* "file://" URLs can be used for viewing contents of local directories and ZIP archives.
* Basic Gempub support: a cover page is generated based on metadata, and there's an automatic split view for index and contents. On macOS, Lagrange is registered as a viewer of .gpub files.
* Bold link styling is used for indicating which links are unvisited.
* Page rendering was optimized: now each line of text is rendered into the view buffer only once, and whenever the view is stationary, content is prefilled in the available space outside the viewport. Previously, at least one line of text was rendered every frame when the viewport was moving, which was mostly redundant.
* Added UI languages: Interlingua, Toki Pona.
* Added "New"/"Import" buttons in the bottom of the Identities tab.
* Added an "All"/"Unread" mode switch in the bottom of the Feeds tab.
* Added toggles for special tags in the bookmark creation/editor dialog.
* Added "Show Downloads" to the File/main menu.
* Added "Open Downloaded File" to the file save dialog to make it easy to find the local copy of the file.
* Updated the UI font to Source Sans 3. It now has all the styles and weights needed for page rendering, too.
* Added a semibold Fira Sans weight (used for unvisited links).
* Preferences: Reorganized the fonts dropdown menu.
* Changed popup dismiss behavior so that a click outside just dismisses the popup and does not trigger further actions.
* All lists support smooth scrolling.
* Multitouch scrolling: each finger can scroll a different widget.
* Adjustments to how display DPI affects UI scaling.
* Fixed allocation of page rendering buffers. Previously, some buffers may have gone unused or were allocated erroneously to the same position, causing unnecessary work for the page renderer.
* Fixed various issues in the UI layout.
* Fixed parsing URI scheme (limited set of characters allowed).
* Don't percent encode equal signs in URL paths.

## 1.3.4
* Allow server certificates with a `*.tld` subject wildcard.
* Updated the French UI translation.
* Fixed media type check in the audio player. Media types with parameters failed to be recognized.
* Fixed crash after a redirect.
* Fixed a rare issue with handling multiple rapid network requests.
* Fixed a rare situation where a network connection would fail to open.
* Minor stability improvements.

## 1.3.3
* Added UI languages: French, German. (Note that neither is 100% finished yet.)
* Added build option to disable IPC for compatibility reasons.
* Added environment variable LAGRANGE_OVERRIDE_DPI.
* Back/forward navigation buttons are disabled if they have no more pages to switch to.
* Minor UI color tuning.
* Fixed possible crash when closing a tab.
* Fixed possible crash when restoring application state at launch.
* Fixed problems parsing and making requests with literal IPv6 addresses.

## 1.3.2
* Fixed crash after updating from v1.2 due to undefined CA file/path configuration.
* Fixed conflation of pixel ratio and display DPI. Pixel ratio is now always separately detected so mouse events can be correctly positioned. You may find that adjusting the UI scale factor (Preferences > Interface) is necessary after upgrading.
* Fixed sidebar width changing when moving the window to a different display.
* Fixed inability to use Tab in keybindings.
* Fixed opening Gopher URLs via drag-and-drop.
* Fixed "Add bookmark..." on a feed entry.
* Fixed keybindings list not being updated immediately when UI language changes.
* Fixed trimming of link label text when a custom Emoji is used.
* Windows: Fixed maximum window size being restricted to the initial display's size.

## 1.3.1
* Added UI languages: Serbian, Interlingue.
* Added option to disable bold links for light/dark backgrounds.
* Updated the Nunito font to the latest version.
* Fixed crash during word wrapping.
* Fixed keybindings overriding the home row key navigation mode.
* Fixed kerning in the text renderer.
* Fixed issue with overlapped drawing of list bullets vs. list items.
* Fixed cropped list bullets when using Literata.
* Fixed whitespace normalization in plain text files (tab characters).
* Fixed issues buffering window contents, possibly causing missing font glyphs.

## 1.3

Localization:
* Added the first set of UI translations: Chinese (Simplified, Traditional), Finnish, Russian, and Spanish. Many thanks to the translators!
* Added page content translation using a LibreTranslate instance running on `xlt.skyjake.fi`. This is somewhat experimental and may occasionally mess up Gemtext markup. Expect long pages to be quite slow to translate (more than a minute).
=> https://weblate.skyjake.fi/projects/lagrange/ui  Lagrange UI translations (Weblate project)
=> https://libretranslate.com                       More information about LibreTranslate
=> gemini://skyjake.fi/lagrange/privacy.gmi         Lagrange privacy policy

Resources:
* Added Noto Sans CJK (Simplified Chinese) font.
* Added Noto Sans Arabic font. Note that right-to-left/bidirectional text rendering is *not* implemented yet.
* Added "about:about" that lists all the available "about:" pages.

Browsing:
* Alt text is shown when hovering over a preformatted block.
* Clicking on a preformatted block collapses it, leaving only the alt text.
* Added option to collapse all preformatted blocks on page load.
* A server certificate can also be verified by Certificate Authorities. When "CA file" and/or "CA path" are set in Preferences, CA verification will mark a certificate as trusted.
* Relaxed TOFU certificate checking when it comes to domain names: `domain.tld` in a certificate is implicitly considered to also mean `*.domain.tld`.
* Fixed handling of IDNs when the user sets a server certificate as trusted via the UI.
* Fixed handling of unknown URI schemes. Previously they were forcefully converted to absolute URIs, breaking them.

Page content and rendering:
* Color adjustments to the "Colorful Dark", "Colorful Light", and "Gray" themes. "Gray" looks different in dark and light UI modes.
* Spacing of bullet lists vs. link lists is more consistent.
* Links are shown in bold, and tinted with the page theme color for more coherent appearance.
* Custom link icons: Gemini links whose destination is on the same domain use as icon the Emoji or other pictograph at the start of the link label. (For example, see Astrobotany menus.)
* Added option to wrap lines in plain text files. This is on by default because there is no horizontal scrolling for plain text.
* Large images are downscaled to an appropriate size for presentation.
* Improved font glyph caching to reduce stuttering during scrolling. All required glyphs are cached after a page load finishes. This allows more efficient copying of glyphs as the operations can be batched.
* Larger content buffers for scrolling, reducing need to redraw content.
* Gopher: Handling the 'h' line type.
* Fixed minor issues with word wrapping.
* Fixed minor blending artifacts with the current heading shown on the right side of the page.

User interface:
* Improved event handling to support touch screens on any platform (if supported by SDL).
* UI scaling factor is applied immediately when closing Preferences. Restarting is no longer necessary.
* Window rescaled automatically when moving it to a display with a different DPI.
* Added unread feed entry count to the sidebar.
* Added a context menu for toggling sidebars. The menu appears when right-clicking on the navbar or on the sidebar tab buttons.
* Double/triple click selection modes. Double click and drag will select by word, triple click by paragraph.
* Popup menus have icons for items to make it faster to find the item you're looking for.
* Soft shadows for popup menus.
* Scrollbars fade away on macOS/iOS and dim on other platforms.
* Reload button moved into the URL field.
* Narrow URL input fields will not display the default "gemini" scheme.
* Domain name is highlighted in URL fields.
* Added a cut/copy/paste context menu to input fields.
* Added an "Import..." button to the empty Identities sidebar.
* Preferences dialog was partially reorganized for clarity.
* Tabs in Preferences look the same as tabs in the sidebar.
* Cleaner appearance for unread feed items in the sidebar.
* Dialog buttons show the corresponding shortcut key.
* Fixed background activity indicators overlapping each other.
* Fixed glitches when widgets extend beyond the left edge of the window.
* Fixed use of plurals in UI strings, enabling support for three or more plural forms.

Keybindings:
* Default page scroll keybindings changed: PageUp/Down scroll a whole page, and Space/Shift+Space scrolls half a page. If you're changed these bindings, note that they will be reset to defaults.
* Added keybinding for subscribing to a page.
* Keyboard modifiers can be remapped using the `modmap.txt` configuration file.
* Caps Lock can be used as a modifier key.
* Internet hot keys (if present on a keyboard) can be used to navigate back/forward and reload the page.

Command line use:
* Added conventional `--help`, `--version` options.
* A previously started instance can be controlled with command line options.
* `--list-tab-urls` prints a list of the currently open URLs in the running instance.

Bug fixes:
* Only one instance of Lagrange is allowed to run per user directory. This prevents instances from overwriting each other's data.
* Fixed use of multiple search terms for quick lookup.
* Fixed handling of multiple feeds having an entry with the same URL.
* Fixed percent-decoding of URLs on the command line and coming in via system URL handlers.

## 1.2.3
* Fixed XML parser hanging on numeric character entities.
* Fixed "Monospace Body" option causing Gemtext line markup to be visible.
* Fixed bookmarking a wrapped link. Now the entire label text gets used instead of just the clicked segment.
* Fixed handling of non-advancing monospace glyphs.
* CMake: Automatically check if `lib/the_Foundation` is up-to-date.
* CMake: Build configuration fails if an SSL library is not found.
* Reverted default bookmarks having "Getting Started" as a remote bookmark source. Now it's just a regular bookmark.

## 1.2.2
* Stability improvements.
* Whitespace is no longer normalized when using the monospace body setting.
* Fixed issues with percent-encoded Gopher paths.
* macOS: Try to prevent forced use of high-performance GPU.

## 1.2.1
* Fixed crash when creating a bookmark.

## 1.2

New features:
* Atom feed subscriptions: Atom XML documents are automatically converted to Gemini feed index pages. This is a built-in version of the Atom-to-Gemini example on the Help page.
* Inline downloads: right-click on any link that is openable inside Lagrange and select "Download Linked File".
* Editable bookmark icons: use your favorite Unicode character as the symbol to represent a bookmarked site.
* Searching via URL field: non-URL text entered in the field is passed onto the configured search query URL (Preferences > Network). An indicator is shown if a query will take place.
* Tab auto-reloading: configure a reloading interval using the page context menu ("Set Auto-Reload..."). Auto-reloading is part of the persistent state of the tab.
* "Iosevka" and "Source Sans Pro" (the UI font) can be used as heading and body fonts.
* User preference for aligning all pages to the top of the window.
* Keybinding (F11) for toggling fullscreen mode. On macOS, the shortcut is ⌃⌘F as before.
* Keybinding for finding text on page.

UI design:
* Enhanced navbar: adjusted spacing, URL field has a maximum width, tab titles have less pronounced borders.
* Improved sidebar appearance: bold subheadings, larger feed icons, adjusted spacing, background color.
* Font consistency: all UI elements use the same font (i.e., no more monospace input fields).
* Added setting for UI accent color (teal, orange).
* General fine-tuning of the color palette.
* Dialog buttons are aligned to the right edge, leaving room for additional action buttons on the left.
* Page Information button is embedded in the URL field.
* Page Information dialog is attached to its button.
* Site icons use a different color in tab titles for visual distinction.
* Fade background behind modal dialogs.
* Responsive page margins.
* Windows: Added a custom window frame to replace the default Windows one. This looks nicer but does not behave exactly like a native window frame. Added a setting to Preferences for switching back to the default frame.

Other changes:
* Help is opened on first run instead of the "About Lagrange" page to make it easier to discover important Gemini links like the FAQ.
* "Go to Root" respects a user name found in the URL. One can still "Go to Parent" to get above the user level.
* Feed entries are sorted by refresh time if they are published on the same date.
* Don't show future-dated feed entries in Feeds.
* Middle-clicking on links: open new tab in background or foreground depending on the Shift key.
* Shift+Insert can be used for pasting clipboard contents into input fields.
* Removed a strange violet-on-green color theme pairing.

Bug fixes:
* Fixed text prompt dialogs closing and accepting the entered text when switching focus away from the app.
* Scroll position remains fixed while horizontally resizing the window or sidebars.
* Fixed a crash when opening the audio player menu.
* Fixed Gopher requests that were using URL (percent) encoded characters.
* Windows: Fixed a flash of white when the window is first opened.

## 1.1.4
* Fixed feed entry highlight/read status issue in the sidebar.
* Fixed Gopher menu links that contain spaces.
* Fixed vertical alignment of short pages: top banner is excluded because it is not part of the content.

## 1.1.3
* Fixed crash when deleting a bookmark that was being used as a remote bookmark source.
* Fixed potential crash at shutdown.
* Fixed URL path decoding not respecting reserved characters.
* AppImage: Disable SSE 4.1 for improved compatibility.
* Windows: Fixed portable build so it stores user files under the "userdata" directory and not under AppData\Roaming\.

## 1.1.2
* Fixed potential crash at launch.
* Fixed input query from a background tab being applied to the foreground tab. An input query now forces a tab to the foreground.
* Fixed window scroll position moving when resizing vertically.
* Fixed feed refresh waiting forever if a server doesn't respond.
* Fixed hover state not being cleared when right-clicking links.
* Fixed remote bookmarks not appearing if they lacked a user-friendly name on the source page.

## 1.1.1
* Fixed focus cycling inside dialogs. Widgets outside a dialog are not allowed to be focused.
* Fixed missing cursor in the New Identity "Valid until" field.
* Fixed "Import Links as Bookmarks" so it can be used to import local copies of remote bookmarks when viewing the remote source page.
* Fixed a cosmetic issue in the Import Identity dialog where part of the widget frames were not drawn.
* Fixed word wrapping issue in unread feed entry titles.
* Fixed opening a URI that contains a fragment in the default browser. The fragment is no longer omitted.
* Fixed default value for the Line Width setting.
* Linux: Check monitor DPI for UI scaling like on Windows and macOS.
* Allow reloading the same URL when clicking on a link or bookmark, or pressing Enter in the navbar.
* Bookmark URLs are normalized by removing the default Gemini port.
* Added a list of environment variables to "about:debug".
* XDG: Respect `XDG_CONFIG_HOME` environment variable for storing user files.
* XDG: Use the configured XDG download directory as default Downloads location.
* The default set of bookmarks now uses a remote source.
=> gemini://skyjake.fi/lagrange/getting_started.gmi  "Getting Started" bookmarks

## 1.1
* Added identity importing: existing client certificates in PEM format can be imported from the current page, from clipboard, or from drag-and-dropped files.
* Added setting for maximum cache size. This is the amount of fetched data kept in memory for page navigation and content lookup. The default is 10 MB.
* Added option to show full link URL when hovering on it.
* Added support for Finger links (courtesy of John Cowan).
* Added keybindings for page reload, opening link in new tab via home row keys (${SHIFT+}F), and hovering on a link via home row keys (H).
* Added keybinding for switching to next set of links for home row navigation.
* Added keybindings for new tab, close tab, adding a bookmark.
* Added a bold UI font. It is used for unread feed entries and default dialog buttons.
* Better alignment of quick lookup result icons and labels.
* Remote bookmarks are grouped under their source in the bookmark list.
* A bookmark's icon is updated after loading the page so it matches the site.
* Trusting a new server certificate manually will update the current page without reloading.
* Middle-clicking on a tab title closes the tab.
* Internal state files now use an ".lgr" extension. If downgrading after running v1.1, note that the old version will not read these.
* Fixed timestamps of visited URLs. Your browsing history will be cleared but can still be viewed manually in "visited.txt".
* Fixed issue where "heading" feed entries would turn unread after a while.
* Fixed duplicate U key for home row navigation.
* Fixed an issue with Unicode characters in quick lookup search terms.

## 1.0.3
* Improved font glyph caching: only rasterize glyphs when drawing text, and retry after failure. This makes initial document layout faster and avoids issues with permanently lost glyphs.
* Fixed parts of text disappearing when the glyph cache fills up. The cache also uses less memory now.
* Fixed percent-encoding of spaces when copying URLs to clipboard.
* Fixed feed entry context menu showing the wrong menu item for Mark as Read/Unread.
* Fixed parentheses and brackets being trimmed from feed entry titles.
* Fixed quotes appearing continuous even when there are empty lines in between.
* Fixed quote border line not showing up on empty quote lines.
* Fixed handling of redirection in a background tab — redirected URL would open in the current tab.
* Fixed Gemini URL normalization with regard to default port.
* Fixed a very minor memory leak.
* Fixed missing "gopher:" URL scheme registration on macOS.

## 1.0.2
* Fixed URL input field showing the wrong URL when opening tabs in the background.
* Fixed trusting a renewed server certificate when multiple tabs are open.
* Fixed opening sidebar feed entries in new/background tab with modifier keys.
* Fixed editing identity notes. The entered new notes were not being applied.
* Server certificate domain name check accepts a matching CN even when SAN doesn't match.

## 1.0.1
* Fixed percent-encoding of the query string.
* Fixed cursor positioning in input fields.

## 1.0
* Added remote bookmarks. Any bookmarked 'text/gemini' page with the "remotesource" tag is a source of remote bookmarks. Each link on the page is shown as a remote bookmark in Bookmarks.
* Added a way to export bookmarks via the special page "about:bookmarks". The page can also list all bookmarks by tag or by creation date.
* Added context menu item for duplicating a bookmark.
* Import all links on a page as bookmarks. (Importing tags is not supported in this version.)
* Links can be bookmarked via context menu.
* Open links with an unrecognized scheme in the default browser.
* Open sidebar items in new/background tab via context menu or modifier keys.
* "Edit Feed..." menu item shows the Feed Settings dialog.
* Removed unimplemented menu items.

## 0.13.2
* Added a little spinner to indicate ongoing requests.
* Fixed very thin progress bar on HiDPI displays.
* Fixed link to Help page from the Identities sidebar tab.
* Fixed incorrect text colors in the UI (e.g., selected lookup result).
* macOS: Disable menu shortcuts for navigation when editing text to prevent accidental page changes.

## 0.13.1
* Fixed build failure on Linux.

## 0.13
* Support for Internationalized Domain Names (IDN) in network requests.
* Percent-encoded URL paths are shown decoded in the UI, and encoded in outgoing requests.
* Added option to disable decoding of percent-encoded paths for the UI.
* Quick search via URL bar shows entries from subscribed feeds.
* Added keybindings for zooming.
* Improved usability of page content searching (${CTRL+}F, Escape).
* Clicking on a certificate warning shows the Certificate Status dialog.
* macOS: Keyboard shortcuts in native menus are updated according to bindings.
* Tweaked handling of Emojis in monospace text. They are given more space as needed, but the original monospace spacing is restored after whitespace.
* Fira Mono replaced with Iosevka Term Extended.
* Fixed use of variable-width fonts in input fields.
* Fixed handling of Unicode joiners and modifiers (by ignoring them, since we lack the glyphs).
* Fixed a layout issue with sidebars where the bottommost content line was occasionally not visible.
* Fixed exit when a hook program didn't read its input.
* Fixed crash when using an identity (with LibreSSL on OpenBSD).

## 0.12.1
* 'text/*' content falls back to plain text.
* Minimized visual artifacts in Unicode box-drawing characters (overlapping/gaps) by fine-tuning glyph scaling.
* Fixed truncated tab titles when opening tabs in background.
* Fixed possible exit if hook program not found (SIGPIPE).
* REQUEST_URL is set in the environment when running MIME hooks.
* "about:debug" lists the configured MIME hooks.
* macOS: Fixed excessive CPU usage while idling.

## 0.12
* Added MIME hooks: pipe Gemini responses through external programs for arbitrary processing. (See "about:help" for usage.)
* Added a right-hand sidebar; have a sidebar on the right or on both sides at once.
* Added a clear warning banner when there is an issue with the server's TLS certificate.
* Follow Weiph/pikkulogs — subscribe to new headings on pages.
* Added UI for subscribing: feed name, entry type (Gemini feed or new headings).
* Added keyboard shortcut ${SHIFT+}${CTRL+}D for subscribing to page.
* Feeds sidebar is capped to 100 entries. "about:feeds" shows all known entries.
* Network connections have a timeout in case server doesn't respond at all.
* Adjusted spacing before/after links to reflect use of empty lines in the source.
* Clicking on page area unfocuses URL input field.
* Added keybindings for switching tabs.
* Gopher: Query links have a 🔍 icon.
* Fixed handling of "file:///" URIs on Windows.
* Fixed misaligned Unicode box-drawing characters.
* Fixed missing error page if status code is unknown (torture test 34).
* Fixed detection of invalid headers (torture test 39).
* Fixed rendering of soft hyphens (torture test 50).

## 0.11
* Added feed subscriptions. A subscription is any bookmark with the "subscribed" tag. Subscribed feeds are refreshed in the background while Lagrange is running.
* Added a new sidebar tab for feeds.
* Added "about:feeds" to show entries from all subscriptions on one page.
* Added icons for special bookmark tags, and context menu items for toggling "homepage" and "subscribed".
* Improved stability: fixed data races, undefined behavior, thread leaks.
* Wide preformatted blocks can be scrolled horizontally with the mouse wheel or trackpad.
* Line widths are slightly narrower for improved readability.
* Light mode UI color palette is less saturated, more sepia-toned.
* Tall menus/dialogs can be scrolled with the mouse wheel.
* Improved download progress updates: never update more often than the UI can be refreshed.
* macOS: Control-Click works as a right mouse click.
* Unix: Location of `xdg-open` is no longer hardcoded.
* Fixed large downloads (10 MB+) stopping prematurely due to a decryption error.
* Fixed window contents not being updated during window resizing.
* Fixed selection/search markers disappearing when scrolling down.
* Fixed displaying of "about:" URLs in history.
* Fixed build on FreeBSD (tested on 12.1).

## 0.10
* Added option to load inline images when pressing Space or ↓ for a more focused reading experience — just keep tapping a single key to proceed. If an image link is visible, it will be loaded instead of scrolling. This option is disabled by default.
* Added context menu item to save inline images to Downloads.
* Added an option to use a proxy server for Gemini requests.
* Added a new keyboard link navigation mode focusing on the home row keys. The default keybinding for this is "F".
* Added a keybinding to activate keyboard link modifier mode. The keyboard link keys are active while the modifier is held down. The default is ${ALT}.
* Clearing and resetting keybindings via a context menu.
* Added a Window tab in the Preferences dialog; moved some of the settings around for better organization.
* Improved page search visualization: if the match is inside a link URL, the link icon is now highlighted. Previously these matches were not visualized in any way.
* Improvements to URI parsing with regard to RFC 3986. Cases that are handled better are double slashes, query-only relative URIs, relative URIs that begin with a tilde, IPv6 literals, username in the authority.
* Replaced EB Garamond with Tinos for improved readability.
* Replaced Kosugi Maru with Noto Sans CJK JP for better glyph coverage.
* Fixed font sizing of level 3 headings.
* Fixed download progress indicators sometimes remaining visible even after leaving the page.

## 0.9
* Clicking on the top banner of a page (where the site icon and hostname are shown) navigates to the root directory of the site.
* Added menu items and keybindings for navigating to site root or the parent directory.
* Added option to use a monospace body text font on all Gemini and/or Gopher pages.
* Remember redirect source URLs as visited but not shown in the History tab. Note that "visited.txt" is no longer fully compatible if opened in an older version of Lagrange.
* "gopher:" scheme is allowed in command line arguments.
* XDG: .desktop file declares support for opening Gopher URLs.
* Fixed an issue where copying the URL input field would not place anything on the clipboard.
* Fixed the Lagrange window visibly changing position during launch.
* Fixed crash when a single percent sign was typed in an input field.
* macOS: Fixed native menu keyboard shortcuts causing redundant command activations.
* macOS: Fixed assigning keybindings when there is an equivalent native menu shortcut.

## 0.8.1
* Fixed potential lockup when navigating back to a query prompt.
* macOS: Improved handling of scroll wheel events from a mouse.

## 0.8
* Added support for Gopher.
* Added support for the full palette of 8-bit ANSI foreground colors.
* Added option to disable smooth scrolling.
* Added button to manually set server certificate as trusted (if the certificate is valid but untrusted).
* Added keybindings for Back/Forward navigation.
* Added a context menu item for opening HTTP links in the default browser even when a proxy is configured.
* Revised identity creation dialog: changed field order, added warning about temporary identities not being saved.
* ${CTRL+}Click opens tab in background, ${SHIFT+}${CTRL+}Click opens as foreground tab. The same modifier keys work with keyboard navigation.
* Improved word wrapping of emoticons (:D).
* Automatic redirects allowed when the destination URL uses the same scheme as the originating URL. For example, when using a proxy, HTTP(S) is allowed to automatically redirect to other HTTP(S) URLs.
* Windows: Fixed handling of drag-and-dropped and command line file paths.

## 0.7.2
* Fixed parsing of the server's response. In some cases it was possible that the response was only partially read.
* Fixed handling of TLS/SSL connection being closed without the socket being closed.

## 0.7.1
* Fixed build on OpenBSD.
* Fixed build with LibreSSL.
* Fixed a potential crash at app shutdown.
* Fixed a potential crash when a thread exits.
* Fixed a potential lockup when a thread exits.
* Linux/Unix: Open "mailto:" links with xdg-open instead of the web browser.

## 0.7
* Basic set of user-configurable key bindings.
* Sidebar: Added a "New Identity" button and a link to "about:help" if there are no identities.
* Faster drawing of certain UI elements: site icon and current heading in the left margin, unfocused input fields, timestamp at the end of the page.
* History is not updated until a network request finishes.
* Improved opening connections when multiple IP addresses are found for a hostname.
* Fixed handling of TLS/SSL errors and hostname lookup problems — an error page is shown.
* Fixed an issue where window contents were not being updated immediately after the window gets exposed when using, e.g., openbox or dwm.

## 0.6
* Added an indicator to visualize progress of network requests.
* Added new color themes for page content: Colorful Light, Black, Gray, Sepia, High Contrast.
* Added page content color theme selection in Preferences.
* Added quote indicator option: icon or vertical line.
* Added a new font for Korean glyphs.
* Smoother smooth scrolling, making it easier to keep one's eyes on the content throughout the motion.
* Windows: Register Lagrange as a handler of "gemini:" URLs.
* macOS: Fixed glitchy window dragging during audio playback.
* Fixed timestamps of cached pages.

## 0.5
* Added MP3 support in the audio player (using mpg123).
* Added volume control in the audio player.
* Metadata in Vorbis and MP3 audio content (title, artist, etc.) is shown in the audio player menu.
* Added new serif fonts: EB Garamond and Literata.
* Allow configuring separate fonts for headings and body text for better visual distinction.
* Preferences dialog remembers the previously open tab.
* Paste from clipboard on middle mouse button click.
* Open links in new tab with middle mouse button.
* Fixed failure to find resources when launching via PATH.
* Fixed color saturation setting not affecting the default color theme.
=> https://mpg123.org/ mpg123: MPEG audio player and decoder library

## 0.4.1
* Set keyboard focus to URL input field after opening a new tab.
* Pause other audio players when a new one is started. One can still choose to have multiple audio players playing simultaneously by unpausing them again.
* Fixed dismissing an audio player that is still downloading content. The partially downloaded data is discarded.
* Fixed saving pages whose name starts with a tilde.
* Fixed saving pages restored from cache.
* Windows: The app is now distributed as an installer created with Inno Setup.
* Windows: All binaries are signed.

## 0.4
* Added audio playback with support for streaming. Supported audio formats in this release are WAV (PCM, mono/stereo, 8/16/24/32 integer/float) and Ogg Vorbis. Shoutout to Sean Barrett et al. for stb_vorbis.
* Added inline audio player that works like inline images. Clicking on an audio link opens the audio player below the link (works for URLs that have file extension .wav/.ogg).
* Visual fine-tuning: increased Fira Sans line spacing; list bullets use an accent color; adjusted accent colors in the light mode palette.
* Sidebar has a maximum width — the document must remain visible.
* Windows: Support for HiDPI displays and the system UI scaling factor. The UI will be scaled according to your settings automatically without having to adjust the UI scaling in Preferences.
* macOS: Use OpenGL on 10.13 for potentially better compatibility.
* Fixed a memory leak when closing tabs.
* Fixed unnecessary continual window redrawing related to the scrollbar hover outline.
=> https://github.com/nothings/stb stb: single-file public domain libraries for C/C++

## 0.3
* Added style customization.
* Added new font option: Fira Sans.
* Added a setting for maximum line width.
* Added a setting for adjusting color saturation.
* Added an option for "Outline on scrollbar": page outline appears when mouse is hovering over the scrollbar.
* Added an option for site icon and current top heading that appear when the window is wide enough.
* Added tabs in Preferences for better grouping.
* Added "Open Link in Background Tab" in link context menus.
* More flexible text selection behavior when starting on empty space.
* Smaller first paragraph font size.
* Fixed centering of popups so they remain centered when window is resized.
* Fixed sizing and alignment of Unicode symbols in preformatted text.
* Fixed sizing of Japanese glyphs in UI text (e.g., tab titles).

## 0.2.1
* Fixed window size/state restoration issues, e.g., after window is maximized.
* Windows: Fixed text disappearing when window is resized.

## 0.2
* Added an icon for quote paragraphs.
* Added Downloads folder to Preferences.
* Added "Save to Downloads" menu item (${CTRL+}S) for saving page contents.
* Added a download progress indicator in the URL input field.
* Added a progress indicator for inline image fetching.
* Added `--sw` option to force software rendering.
* Added macOS touch bar buttons for Back, Forward, Find, New Tab, and sidebar modes.
* Home button opens a random bookmark with the "homepage" tag.
* Improved context menu when right-clicking on links or the page.
* Recognize and handle "mailto:" links.
* Fixed behavior of images on single-image pages; cannot be hidden like inline images.
* Fall back to software rendering automatically if accelerated graphics are not available.
* Minor bug fixes.

## 0.1.1
* Fixed a potential crash at startup.
* Fixed bug where user's query input is handled by all tabs.
* Default sidebar mode is Bookmarks.
* Windows: Fixed opening HTTP links in the default web browser.

## 0.1
* The major version zero is reserved for non-feature-complete releases.
* Beautiful typography using Unicode fonts.
* Autogenerated page style and Unicode icon for each Gemini domain.
* Smart suggestions when typing the URL — search bookmarks, history, identities.
* Sidebar for page outline, managing bookmarks and identities, and viewing history.
* Multiple tabs.
* Identity management — create and use TLS client certificates.
* Light and dark UI themes.
* Select and copy text with the mouse.
* Find text on the page.
* Open image links inline on the same page.
* Open links via keyboard shortcuts.
* Instant back/forward navigation.
* Smooth scrolling.
* Scaling page content (50%...200%).
* Scaling factor for the UI (for arbitrary monitor DPI).
* Persistent app state — tabs and history are restored on next run.
